Greetings to all fellow
practitioners of the Buddha Shakyamuni. Today we begin our
second meditation practice.
We will contemplate the content of the
sutra about the offering of porridge.
This sutra speaks of the Buddha Shakyamuni's previous lives,
from the day he made the vow to offer alms to the
Pratyekabuddhas, from the day he was
a poor man to the day
he was born into a poor family. To summarize, after being born into poverty and growing
up, he earned a living by
working for a wealthy family. One day, he
bought four portions of porridge from a shop and thought, "
This is enough for my breakfast." He then went to
work in the fields. Seeing four
Pratyekabuddhas coming to beg for alms,
he thought, "I have these four portions of porridge. If I may offer them to you, I will
receive merit and lasting peace."
Therefore, all fellow practitioners...
Even though he was from a poor family,
he understood the law of karma. He
hoped that with this act of giving, he would receive
long-lasting blessings.
He believed in karma when he began practicing the Bodhisattva path,
so we, as disciples of Buddha,
must deeply believe in karma in all
circumstances. Because our
current circumstances are the result of past lives and
many lifetimes. We have sown seeds, and now
we reap the fruits. So, we are healthy now, then sick
later, then healthy again, prosperous now,
poor then
rich again—it's all about paying off our
karmic debts.
When we
are in such circumstances, we must deeply believe in
karma and continue sowing good seeds in
any situation, whether poor or
rich. With a mindful and compassionate heart,
together with our fellow practitioners, we observe
the day of offering. He said, "
Take a basket of leaves, bring water, pour it onto the
bed, place four portions of porridge, and have one bowl for
yourself." He
respectfully bowed and said, "I pray that through
this blessing, I will not be born into a poor family."  Even in poverty, we
hope this will be a karmic connection for us to attain the state of
Enlightenment. We remember
the words of the Buddha, we remember them so that
we may learn from them. When practicing the Bodhisattva path, if we can
perform even a little merit, like the practitioners of the Pure Land and the
Buddhas, it
consists of two parts: the first is to
transform our current circumstances, and the second
is to pray for the realization of the true and
righteous path. Yes, we must pray for both, never just one thing in the present. If someone only prays for the present life, they will not know how to take care of themselves in the afterlife. Above, we must pray for two things: firstly, in the present, to resolve difficulties; secondly,
in the future, to escape
those karmic consequences and to achieve supreme enlightenment.
After the
Pratyekabuddhas finished eating the porridge, they spoke words of merit and returned. After the Pratyekabuddhas finished eating, they spoke
words of joy and returned.
After the Bodhisattvas respectfully greeted
these Buddhas, they felt joyful
when and after they went to preach and
work.  The work we do every day will always remember you until the end of
our lives. We must remember
this little detail: we must always remember the
act of giving alms, even our own bedding,
and always remember to
offer alms to the virtuous ones,
and always be joyful about it.
Yes, this is what we need to learn
from this sutra. Sometimes we have
bedding, but at some point
something displeases us, and
we have an unwholesome mind. If we have such an unwholesome mind,
we will not be able to maintain
this joyful mind until the end of our lives. At the
end of our lives, even in the next life, our time is short. The
important thing is that we must always be joyful.
Therefore, the mind should be focused on the complete contemplation,
and we should organize ourselves into a
golden club to practice the Six Harmonies so that
we always see that our giving and
our games always inspire the Flower. The
paths we follow are
guided by our participation in all the
Four Activities at the temple, offering alms to the monks and
all the Dharma propagation activities.  The monks
above us have seen the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club. We present an image:
This Dharma assembly invites the Venerable Masters to perform the
ceremony, and we still rejoice. At that time, we
consider ourselves as participants
in all the merits of the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club. Whenever there is a
fund, we must remember that the offerings and
almsgiving of the Golden Chrysanthemum Club
are our own. It's clear, sister, that
this is the Truc Hung Dharma Assembly
inviting the Venerable Masters,
not the Compassionate Dharma Assembly.
So today, the Buddhists in Compassion are
not as happy with the Truc Hung Dharma Assembly as they are with
their own Compassionate Dharma Assembly. That means some
Dharma assembly members don't
understand or differentiate, and are therefore at a disadvantage.
Whatever merits the Dharma assembly in the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club accomplishes,
it is also a part of it for the
Dharma assembly members. The Dharma assembly in the Golden Chrysanthemum Club
organizes the starting point, cooks meals, and makes
offerings daily –
all of that is the Dharma assembly members' responsibility.
Therefore, Dharma assembly members must always maintain a compassionate heart.
Rejoicing in all the activities and the
support of all the Buddhist followers of the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, and all the things that the Buddhist followers of the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club do, are also the things that the fellow
practitioners are doing. I am
rejoicing in them, and I have a connection with them.
The fellow practitioners understand, sister, that we must
always rejoice in the offerings every day
because only by doing good deeds can
we, in this sutra, cultivate our minds to be joyful,
without increasing or decreasing, towards all the good deeds and
intentions of the Golden Chrysanthemum Club. From offerings
to other things, we should not let
our community do this work and then increase
the number of others doing this work, and then
pretend to have a pure heart. Completely equal
joy with all the communities and all fellow
practitioners, no matter how small the work, the
mind should rejoice equally, neither
high nor low. The practice of the Dharma must also
have this mind so that we can maintain
it until we
can clearly represent the mechanism. If we want to
achieve that, we must practice
this: watch online every day,
watch everything online every day.  The day of the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club's activities, the pages of the
temple, to make a vow of compassion, because we are involved
in it, and our actions
are a contributing factor. For example,
this flower is praised for
its beauty, and all its petals
contribute equally.
You all have the same spiritual foundation.
Now, try cutting off one or two petals. See if
anyone still praises the flower as beautiful. If it's not beautiful, then
no one will. It's very
ugly. The work of the Golden Chrysanthemum Club,
even if it's just offering a piece of cake
or performing a good deed,
is the work of all our fellow practitioners. We
must remember that, and this
will be discussed in the next section of the Nga meditation group. We
must remember that, and that is our merit.
We are
involved, that's why we have the Golden Chrysanthemum Club.
We are the karmic connection to the club,
and therefore, everything belonging to the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, the offerings and duties within it,
are
our karmic connections. Let's be joyful about this, and
not discriminate against our own group.  And in your
community, if you have a spiritual foundation like that, your merit and
wisdom will diminish,
even the royal family's fortune will continue to run. The
scripture says: "Thanks to this blessing,
on the day of rebirth into the Mother of the Queen
in Poland, he was named Prince
Abrahamatta.
Remember this, sister,
this joy lasts until you are born
as a king. And
remember, if we
have already
made offerings, but we are
not equal in this club,
and we see that our community is better than another,
our community is worse, that other community is
also better than another, and we are also
worse than that other, then we cannot maintain the
joyful heart with
this offering because that other heart is obscured. Just when you
go to make an offering, you take three
flowers, you see someone who needs only
one, and you say, 'I can use
three flowers.' Then you lose
the joyful heart, and it
shifts to the other heart, thinking 'it's better,' and there is
no longer any offering."  It is
another way to maintain the mindset of winning and losing.
Because it is this mindset of winning and losing that maintains us,
we are born into a competitive environment, a place of
much envy, attachment, and
mutual harm. Remember, let's
maintain the joy of offering. Let's maintain the joy of
offering.
Let's not allow the mind of winning, envy, and
jealousy to appear. Let's not allow other items to appear,
and let's not maintain other things. Let's maintain
a joyful mind with the offering,
joyful with good deeds. Remember
this, the mind will illuminate the path of enlightenment, hoping to reduce the
imbalance between us. Think about
this throughout
this life. Because this helps
us decide about our future in the
next life, and it greatly influences our path.
If we are joyful with all the
charitable work and the Six Harmonious Deeds of the
Golden Club, considering it as merit and good deeds, and that merit and good deeds
are shared by all the
Buddhists in the Golden Club, then we will have a path of
good deeds.  The general is so powerful that only
his essence remains as a weapon, which is truly
amazing and sublime. Once we remove it, we
will eliminate many
egoistic and clinging thoughts, preventing us from maintaining
such a mindset.
Just this one small thing, and we eliminate
many evil deeds
in this very lifetime. We have already
eliminated many karmic debts, haven't we,
dear fellow practitioners? We've eliminated so much, otherwise, later on,
I'll be better than you, you'll be better than me,
you'll be not as good as me. It's very tiring, very
troublesome, and full of suffering in
this lifetime. Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, after the
king's father passed away, the
king was born on the day of his marriage to the beautiful princess
of King Kosala and was appointed Queen Consort.
During
this coronation ceremony, the king saw
himself receiving many benefits. He had a large and
numerous
population, holding all kinds of possessions,
and many women and workers.
That means he received many assets,
loyal people, and a
beautiful country. He saw it all
and
began to experience it.  I just remembered that the
merit of your previous life was due to offering food to the
Pratyekabuddhas, which is why you received
such blessings. Seeing this, I feel so
good. My inspiration for this new day is
high, and I recite the following verses:
Offering to the Buddhas, my
dear friend, please don't underestimate
this act of offering porridge, even without salt,
for such great blessings. That is, in my
previous life, I was a poor person who could
only afford plain porridge.
Now, people call it a grandson, a grandson of
all kinds. I'm not sure if I even
had salt to add to it, let alone
shrimp, fish, or meat. In my
previous life, I was a poor person, a poor
person who could only afford
that porridge. Even when I offered it as a coconut offering, you still
received such blessings.
Your blessings included horses, elephants, buffaloes,
cows, gold, silver, rice, corn, the whole country, and beautiful
women.
Bringing the fruits to my hands, I offered
four portions of porridge to four Pratyekabuddhas, and I
received such blessings. In
this joyful state, the Bodhisattva recited this song.
And from then on, the
people were allowed to see the king's songs.
There was one, and everyone sang, from
dancers, musicians,
scholars, and guards to the common people and
courtiers. Everyone recited the
king's verses. Then
one day, the king
said to the queen, "My queen,
I want to grant you a wish.
Please accept this special favor. Your Majesty is so kind and blessed to receive
such a special favor." The queen
then asked, "What do you want?" "
Elephant and horse," the
king replied. "Your Majesty, thanks to your grace, I
lack nothing. I don't need that." "
But if Your Majesty grants me a
special favor, please tell me the meaning of
your song." The king then presented
the song as a blessing, but the queen didn't
know the meaning. She
only wanted to know the meaning.
Later, the king explained
the meaning to the queen. After hearing the
meaning of the poem, the queen said
to the king, "My great king, if you
clearly see the fruits of
such generosity, from now on..."  Later, please accept a
portion of rice and do not eat it until
you yourself have offered food to the
righteous ascetics and Brahmins.
Then the queen recited, still ignoring it for eight months. The Bodhisattva
respectfully addressed the esteemed Dharma friends.
After hearing this, the
queen said, "I have told the Great King that from now
on, if the Great King accepts portions of
food, he should not eat it. If he has not yet, he should
regularly give it to the righteous ascetics and
Brahmins." The queen was
truly wonderful when she saw
the king
speaking about the meaning that the
king's blessings came from his past lives of offering food to the
Pratyekabuddhas. Therefore, the
queen carefully explained that from
now on, the king should offer food to the
righteous practitioners before consuming his
portion. She was a truly wonderful wife,
wanting to maintain long-lasting happiness
for her husband.
Thus, the queen recited the poem, "Eat only after you have offered food," meaning, "Eat only after you have offered food, then
eat,"
turning the wheel of righteousness everywhere, the
emperor avoided it.  Far from the unjust rule of the
nation, the true ruler saw a
truly wonderful wife who wanted to maintain the
country's strength. Therefore, the wife
advised her husband to make offerings to
gain merit so that the country could prosper for
a long time. This wife was a wife who brought
success to her husband. So here,
if any of you have a husband who is an official, a
husband with a high position,
advise him like the
queen advised. If you want
your position to be secure and
long-lasting,
make offerings
to true practitioners
before you ascend to heaven.
Then you will have a stable and prosperous position. The
most important thing is to
follow the path of the righteous,
always avoiding the path of the virtuous and benevolent. We look at the
saints, meaning we always
choose that path.
That path is the
righteous path that virtuous and benevolent people always follow,
and always in that day and night, the
saints, the revered ones, the
ones to whom we always make offerings.
Then the king asked Empress Le Hoang Hau, who
was exceptionally beautiful among the other
concubines and ladies-in-waiting,
what practice had she undertaken to achieve
such a status? The Empress replied that in her previous life she was a servant, a mere
servant in the royal
palace of King Ba,
diligently practicing humility,
virtue, and cultivating kind speech. One day,
she offered a portion of her meal to a
monk, and her heart was filled with merit. This is the
result of
that merit, Your Majesty. Reading this, I feel a connection to this story. It seems this Empress, in her previous life, also came from humble origins, though only for a short time. However, she diligently practiced humility,
virtue, and kind speech, and one
important thing was to
offer her meal to a
virtuous monk. Therefore, this servant
became Empress in this life.
What a blessing! In this sutra, the
king and empress, in their previous lives, one
came from a poor background
working for a master, and the other from a humble
background.  A slave... So, these two were
very poor, but they both shared
a common goal: making offerings.
One made offerings to the Pratyekabuddha, and the
other to the ascetic Brahma-
Hana. Therefore, making offerings to the Pratyekabuddha meant becoming a
king, and making offerings to the
ascetic Brahma-Hana meant becoming a queen.
Yet, these two remembered
their past lives and continued this practice. Yes, that
is in the present and is closely related to each other.
Let's summarize the lesson:
one was a poor person
working for a master, the other was
also a hired hand, but both made offerings.
One made offerings to the Pratyekabuddhas, so in the next life he became a king. The other made
offerings to the ascetic Brahma-Hana,
so in the next life he became a queen. The
important thing is that
both of them
remembered their past lives
and encouraged each other to continue making
offerings,
reminding each other to walk the righteous path of seeking
supreme enlightenment. Respectfully, dear fellow
practitioners, that king is the previous incarnation of the
Buddha Shakyamuni.  The story of Queen Masamita and the
previous incarnation of Princess Yasodhara shows
us a wonderful karmic connection.
Both came from
poor families, shared a common spirit of generosity, and encouraged each other to
continue giving, continuing
on the path of Bodhi. Let
us, as noble fellow practitioners, always encourage each other in
our practice, and we will become true
friends. Sometimes, we have
very fortunate connections in our
future Bodhisattva paths. If you like,
here we have a topic on
meditation,
as follows:
Yes, one contemplation of this sutra
is our deep belief in karma, so that we can both
practice in all circumstances. The
meaning of the sutra is that the
two were very poor, yet they still made offerings. Later, we should
always rejoice in all good
deeds and offerings of the
Golden Club
because we practice giving and receiving.
Therefore, all good deeds of the
Buddhists in the Golden Club are also good deeds, and we have
our karmic connection
in them. So, let's continue with this
idea.  Secondly, we should rejoice in all good deeds
and offerings of the National Club.
Thirdly, we should constantly remember
our offerings to the club. These
are three points in this article that we need
to contemplate. Later, we should
direct our hearts in gratitude for the
Bodhisattva path of the Buddha. May
our fellow practitioners have a successful meditation session and
achieve merit. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
[Music]
um um